We developed a smart system to protect endangered animals. Through a collar that  the animal wears around the neck that contains a monitoring system to combat illegal  poachers. Also contains a system for monitoring the health of the animal.   This system is directed to animal rights organizations in countries that seek to  maintain the balance of their ecosystem and preserve the diversity of their animal wealth  from the threat of extinction.   This project solves the problem of animal extinction through two stages, the first  is to monitor everything that happens around the animal through cameras that capture  everything that happens in the animal’s surroundings from natural phenomena such as  torrents, storms, or the approach of an illegal hunter of the animal. The second is to  monitor the animal’s health and physical condition such as heart rate, temperature, etc.   This is through some sensors that collect data.   The way the system works is like this, each of the cameras and sensors is connected  to the Arduino board to collect data and establish a connection between the wifi module  and the IoT cloud platform and send the data to it to be stored and organized, and then a  connection is established between the IoT cloud platform and the node-red to restructure  and arrange the data. Then establish a connection between it and the database so that this  data stored in the database is displayed on the interface of the website, through which all  data is monitored to follow up on the condition of the animal without the need for the staff  to mix daily with all the animals only they will have to monitor this smart system.
